In a great number of electronic devices, such as liquid-crystal displays, photovoltaics, thin film transistors and touch screen panels, transparent conductive thin films (TCF) are a key component.
Indium tin oxide (ITO) films are widely used in these applications due to their high electrical conductivity and optical transparency, but also seriously limit flexibility and require high processing temperatures. Its rising global demand as also increased costs. Therefore, a pratical, cost-effective and mechanically flexible alternative for ITO is necessary.
A suitable substitute for ITO is PEDOT:PSS, which is a conductive polymer system with good mechanical properties. However, its conductivity and transparency are not sufficient for many applications.
A replacement material for ITO is required to have 1) a sheet resistance of less than 100 \OMEGA/sq 2) optical transparency greater than 90% and 3) unlimited scalability. DC conductive to optical conductivity ratio shall be greater than 35.
Silver nanowire networks, graphene thin films and carbon nanotube (CNT) thin films can overcome many of the shortcomings inherent in ITO and can be highly conductive with good transparency and extreme flexibility.
Silver nanowires are small (about 100nm diameter, 20\MICROm lenght) silver wires with excellent electrical properties, beeing studied to be used in flexible conductors. They exhibit great stress resistance and, if deposited in low densities, high transparency but a smaller than desirable conductivity, due to a small number of connections between wires. In order to obtain ITO-grade conductivity, high density depositions are required, increasing the cost of the final device.
Graphene is a single layer of pure carbon, forming a 2-dimensional material in a hexagonal honeycomb lattice. It exhibits excellent electrical, thermal and mechanical properties. As with silver nanowires, a denser deposition pattern is required to achieve ITO-grade conductivity. Technological limitations result in high prices for quality graphene flakes, thus making graphene only solutions not commercially viable.
A carbon nanotube thin film can overcome many of the above shortcomings, as it can be made highly conductive, with good transparency and flexibility. Scale is the limiting factor in this case.
Hybrid materials aim to make use of the advantages of each component and to create synergies between them.
Previous work on silver nanowires graphene hybrids has been performed, showing improved properties, but no optimization with a computer model was performed.
